NAME:

- Yirong Tang (ytang05)
- Shucheng Tian (stian01)

HELP RECEIVED

- We received help from TAs for general debugging tips and Noah
  for pointing us in the right direction with regard to optimizing
  our solution.

CORRECTNESS

- We have correctly implemented everything. 

DEPARTURE FROM DESIGN

- Instead of having two component (Memory and Segment), we only use one
  component (Memory), because we think that even though adding one more layer
  can make our program slightly more modular, the cost of adding one 
  more layer of (unnecessary) abstraction is larger than the benefit of 
  increasinging a little modularity. 

ARCHITECTURE:

- UM Component:
  It is essentially a main() function that drives the program. It interacts with
  Load Component to obtain a UArray_T of instruction, then pass the instructions
  to run() function in VM Component. This component knows an UArray_T of 
  instructions and nothing more.

- VM Component:
  This component acts like a real machine - it reads in instructions, manages 
  memory, and executes instructions accordingly. It interacts with Memory
  Component to create a memory and execute the program by interacting with the 
  Instruction Component. This component knows the memory of the program, the
  instruction that is unpacked, instruction unit, a stack to store unmapped 
  segment that can later be reused to save memory.

- Memory Component:
  memory.c is able to create a Mem (an Data Structure based on Hanson 
  Seq_T), that represents the segmented memory of the UM. It has other 
  functionalities of creating the whole Memory, map segment, unmap segment, 
  put value into and get value from a segment. It hides how (un)mapping 
  segments and loading/storing segments is managed.

- Load Component:
  This component reads the binary from .um file passed in by UM component and 
  use Bitpack to convert the binary to 32-bit word (uint32_t). It ensures the 
  content of the given .um is properly formatted and returns an array of 
  instructions, that can later be executed by VM Component.

- Instruction Component:
  Instruction Component contains 14 instruction functions written in the UM
  specification. These functions will be called by the run() function
  in the VM Component.

- Diagram:

         array of instruction             instruction
    UM ----------------------------> VM <--------------> Instruction
    ^                                ^     execution           ^
    |                                |                         |
    |                                |                         |
    Load                           Memory                   Memory
(load binary to UArray_T.      (manage memory)         (manage memory)
 of uint32_t instructions)

– Explains how long it takes your UM to execute 50 million instructions, and 
  how you know

  Our UM can execute 50 million instructions in roughly 1,42 seconds on a
  halligan machine in Rm 120. We got this information by adding a static
  instruction counter which is added by one every time an instruction is
  executed. We found that ./um midmark.um executes a total of 85,070,522 
  instructions, and it takes our UM 2.42 sec to complete midmark. Using
  simple algebra we found the above number(2.696 sec).

UNIT TEST:
cmove.um : 	This program tests condition move by examining two registers
 		(one is zero and the other is not) and makes corresponding
		moves between registers, and output both results. 
halt.um : 	This program contains only the halt instruction, and should
		cause no memory leaks.
input-simple.um : This program test input and output by reading in a character
		  from stdin and output the character immediately, which
		  should be the same as the input.
load_program.um : This program tests load program mapping a new segment and
		  load that segment into $m[0]. If the load program is not
		  successful, the program will output "no".
nand.um : This program tests nand by doing nand to a digit twice which
	  essentially gives back the original digit. Add that digit by 48 and
	  print it on stdout will yield the same digit.
print-six.um : This program tests add, multiply, and divid by doing the
	       following calculations: (2*12/4)+48 and output the result,
	       which should be six.
segment.um : This program tests (un)map segment and sstore and sload in a
	     large loop which should not cause segfault or memoryleaks. 


HOURS SPENT ANALYZING THE ASSIGNMENT:
3 hours

HOURS SPENT PREPARING DESIGN:
5 hours

HOURS SPENT SOLVING THE PROBLEM:
20 hours (we finished the program fast, but spend a significant amount of time
debugging!)
